Hi there.
This is the De La Rue.
Let's get started with the executive framework.
What we saw so far is threadbare task approach.
That is a task is created and is assigned to a newly created thread for execution.
We also saw an alternative approach where a task is defined as part of the thread itself.
So there's a close connection between task and threat.
That is, for every new task.
We have a new thread.
And this works for only small scale applications.
But it has limitations when used in large scale applications where large number of threads may be created.
One limitation is threat creation and on costs.
If there can be large number of threats, then creating threats can consume significant amount of resources.
This cost also varies across platforms.
And having large number of vulnerable threads can use a lot of memory.
Another limitation of threadbare task is the instability of an application, and this is due to the
lack of limit on how many threads can be created.
On any given platform, there would be some threshold on the number of threads that can be created.
And if this threshold is reached, we will most likely get an out of memory error.
So creating large number of threats will not only consume a lot of memory, but can also result in out
of memory error.
So the solution for these limitations is the executive framework, which is also recommended by this
effective Joe Biden, and it says prefer executors and tasks to threats.
Using this framework, we will not deal with threats directly.
They are inherently by the executive framework.
Executive framework is essentially a very flexible and a powerful task execution framework.
And it consists of a Q and a thread poll work.
U is basically a queue containing all the tasks that need to be executed.
And thread pull is simply a pull off threads that execute the tasks in the work.
You.
In this illustration, the symbol P represents a threat, and the task we know is the work that is.
It implements the vulnerable interface.
In fact, later we will also look at another type of task called callable.
So in this framework, a third picks the next task from the CPU.
It executes it and goes back to the pool waiting for another task.
So thread is not terminated as soon as it finishes executing a task, like in the case of thread per
task approach.
It will go back to the pool so that it can be reused over and over again for new tasks.
And these tadpoles can be of different types and you can specify what kind of threat you would like
to create, and that decides things like how many threats the threat would have or how long the threats
will be alive.
And that's all essentially threat management.
So we can specify what kind of threat pose we would like to have in our application.
And we will soon look at a few commonly used threat pools.
So the next question is how does the executive framework address the limitations of threat per task
approach?
First, as it was just mentioned once, thread pool is created.
It has some fixed number of threads and they can be used readily without having to create a new thread
for every new task to be executed.
And that saves thread creation and taken costs.
So a task would be executed immediately without having to wait for a newly created thread.
So that leads to better responsiveness.
And since we can have an upper limit on the number of threads that a thread pool can have, the other
two limitations are also addressed.
The third limitation was about instability, where we may end up with an out of memory error when there
is no bound on the number of threads to be created.
Now let's see how the executed framework is represented.
Later, we will also do a very short demo.
There is this interface called Executor, which represents the task execution framework, and it has
one method execute, which takes a round table as input.
So tasks are submitted via this method.
This snippet shows how you can implement a threat per task executed.
As you can see, it implements the executed interface and in the execute method a new thread is being
spawned for every new task.
So that's the thread per task executor.
And this is how the client code would look like, as we can see.
Two tasks are being submitted to the same executor.
And here is how you would create a single threaded executed.
That is a new thread is not created for the given task.
We are directly invoking the run method on the run able instance.
So here each task is executed sequentially as part of the caller thread itself.
So what we are seeing here is a different type of prosecutor than what we saw in the previous slide
with the threat per task executed.
So essentially with this kind of a framework, we are able to decouple the submission from the actual
task execution process.
That means the task execution process can be customized as per our needs.
Let's now look at other kinds of executor's.
This class called executors from the package concurrent provides most of the executors that we will
ever need.
We are static factory methods.
And here are some of the important methods.
New fixed thread pool, new cast thread pool, new single thread executed a new scheduled thread pool.
So these methods return executables with certain properties associated with them.
And the executors returned by the first three methods implement the interface, execute the service
which extends the executed interface and it is really very extensive as we will see later.
So the return type of these three methods is an executed service.
The last method returns an executor that implements scheduled executor service, which in turn extends
executor service.
Note that executioners written by these methods are instances of a class called Tadpole Executor, which
is from the package jabber dot dot concurrent.
And the last method actually returns an instance of a subclass of this class thread pull executed.
And this class extends abstract executive service, which is a skeletal implementation of executed service.
As specified earlier.
We can use one of these methods as I executed the return address, the most common usage scenarios.
And if you need more customized execution, then you can directly use thread, pull executed class and
you can get more information on that by reading its API.
Let's now briefly look at the attributes of the executors that are written by the methods in the previous
slide.
And let's begin with new fixed thread poll.
As the name suggests, this method creates a fixed size pool where size is specified by the input parameter
and threads.
So the threat pool will have a maximum of threads that will be active.
And the way it works is initially there will not be any threats, but as tasks are submitted, new threats
will be created to execute them.
And this continues until pool size is reached.
Not that if pool size is not yet reached and if there is a new task, then a new threat is created to
execute the task.
Even if there is an idle threat.
But once the pool size is reached, no new threats are created.
And for any new task, either an idle threat is used or the task is cured until the threat becomes idle.
So at any point of time, at most, any threats will be actively processing tasks.
A new threat is added if an existing threat dies due to exception.
And if you're dealing with a heavily loaded production server, then this is the method that you need
to invoke.
Not that full size is also reconfigurable by invoking set maximum pool size method from the class thread
pool executed.
But as mentioned earlier, new fixed thread pull method returns an executed service.
So we need to cast it to thread pull executable for invoking this method.
Now in the last slide, one of the methods was new single thread executor, and invoking that method
is similar to creating a fixed Red Bull with a size of one, but with the constraint that the executor
cannot be reconfigured.
So the written executor will strictly have a single active thread.
Next is new castrate method.
And in this configuration tasks are not cured, just like in the case of thread per task policy.
It means that there is no bond on threat creation.
For a given task.
If there is an idle threat, it will be reused.
Otherwise, a new one will be created.
Since an idle threat can be reused, it is definitely better than threat per task policy as the reusing
threads would lead to better responsiveness.
However, a threat can be idle for only 60 seconds, after which it will be terminated and removed from
the cache.
Note that in case of new fixed pool, there is no such restriction on how long the thread can be idle.
And it's a good choice for a lightly loaded server.
It's not preferred for heavily loaded applications, as recreation is unbounded here.
The final method was new scheduled thread pool, which creates a fixed size threat pool that supports
delayed and periodic task execution.
For instance, you can schedule a task to run after a period of 60 seconds, so that's a delayed task.
Similarly, you can also schedule a task to run once every hour periodically.
So that's about it.
We have learned how Executable Framework decouples task submission from task execution and this gives
the flexibility to create different kinds of triples.
We learned that for heavily loaded applications.
New fixed rate pull is preferred, while four lightly loaded applications new cache thread pull is preferred.
Now let's go ahead and do a very quick demo.
For this demo, I created this new class called Knife Executable Indexer in our concurrency indexer
package.
So we are once again going to have our downloaded thread and the indexer thread and we are going to
download the four web links.
Now here we are going to create executables.
So we are not going to deal with we are not going to create threads directly.
Right?
We are going to use executables.
And the executed that we are going to create here is fixed thread pull executed and we are going to
have separate executables for downloading and indexing.
So we have these two executables downloader download executable and index index are executed and we
are invoking the method new fixed thread pull from the executable class and we are passing a value of
two, which means that at any given instance of time we will have to download our threads.
And similarly within the indexer executor we'll have to indexer threads and the program itself, the
class itself is called us now executable indexer, which means that there is some niceness in this class
and it is very similar to the now indexer program which we have seen earlier.
And the limitation with that particular class was that the indexer thread was waiting for the downloader
thread to finish its downloading, and the way it was waiting was it was looping in a wide loop.
So the limitation was that zip cycles were getting wasted and because of that we had an improvement.
So we in the next lecture we created the Wait Notify Indexer, which was an improvement over the native
indexer.
But the wait notify index itself.
The limitation with that is it does low level handshaking and that's why we are here looking at the
executable framework.
But even this program has the same limitation as an indexer where the CPU cycles are being wasted.
And we will fix that in the next lecture.
So, so here we are creating two executors download executor and indexer executor.
And those are and those are fixed dreadful executors.
And in the main method we are instantiating as usual and we are creating the for web blanks and we are
adding it here into the queue and we are finally invoking a go method.
And in the go method we are iterating through the list, through the queue of web links and we are passing
each weblink.
We are creating an instance of downloader and passing that web link and downloader is simply a task
and we are passing it to the corresponding executor here download executor and we are doing the same
with the indexer and we are going to iterate through all of the web links.
So after that.
We have these two downloader and the indexer threats and indexer tasks and the executor framework.
Well.
You know, the threats within the executive framework will take these tasks and then Bill will execute
them and then we'll go back into the idle state.
So we already know that.
So here the downloader and index attacks are very similar to what we have seen earlier in the knife
index program.
So it's just the same code here, the downloader as downloading the web page and it is invoking the
HTML page and the web link in the web link object and it is setting the HTML page.
And the other thread is simply looping here until the HTML page has been downloaded.
So as soon as this not equal to null is true, then we go ahead and index the HTML page.
If not, we just keep looping here in this loop, wasting the CPU cycles.
All right.
And the only thing you might want to remember as the HTML within this HTML, within the Web class,
HTML page is actually a volatile variable.
And that gives the memory visibility advantage.
So by doing so, the the indexer thread will be able to see the latest value of the HTML page as soon
as the downloader downloader thread downloads the HTML page.
So that's about it.
So let me just go ahead and run this.
Downloading?
Not yet downloaded.
Okay, we are done.
So all of the four links have been indexed now.
But as you can see, a lot of CPU cycles have been wasted in the form of looping here.
So that's the disadvantage.
Now, the program is still running, as you can see, and that's because the executor has to be shut
down.
And the reason we are unable to shut down is because those methods are not available in the executed
interface.
And for that, we need to use executor service, which we will use in the next in the next demo, in
the next lecture.
And along with that, we will also fix the limitation of wasting the CPU cycles, and we will be using
other types like callable and future.
And we will see that in the next lecture.
So that's about it.
Thank you.
And this code will be available in the resources section.